I was very seldom idle
Crusoe spends months making a shelf for his abode. During the rainy months he plants his crop of rice and grain but is angered to discover that birds damage it. He shoots several of the birds and hangs them as scarecrows over the plants, and the birds never return. Crusoe finally harvests the grain and slowly learns the complex process of flour grinding and bread making. Determined to make earthenware pots, Crusoe attempts to shape vessels out of clay, failing miserably at first. Eventually he learns to shape, fire, and even glaze his pots. Thinking again of sailing to the mainland, Crusoe returns to the place where the ship’s boat has been left upturned by the storm. He tries for weeks to put it right side up but is not strong enough

Man Friday
This text talks about the savage rescued by Robinson. His name is Friday. He is well described by Daniel Defoe from points of view both physical and psychological.
Physically Friday, that is a primitive man, is described like a gorgeous man. As a matter of fact, he is tall and well-shaped, with straight and strong limbs, good and European countenance, long and black hair, high and large forehand, ecc… Instead, from a psychological point of view he is described indirectly, starting from his behavior.
Through his actions, in fact, he subjugates himself to Robinson considering him better than himself and showing gratitude to the man that have saved him.
On the other hand, Robinson shows a sense of superiority towards Friday from the beginning. A proof of this is the name that he gave to the savage, that is Friday because of the day of the week in which he was rescued by Robinson. This is a way for Robinson for the self-congratulation. But at the same time Robinson is also charitable towards Friday saving him and teaching him the language. In summary we can say that Robinson behaves like a typical English colonizer.
From the stylistic point of view, Daniel Defoe uses a simple and descriptive language. There are a lot of adjectives that are useful for the descriptions. In my opinion, this text can be divided in 3 parts. In the first part, that goes from the line 1 to the line 12, there is the physical description of Friday. In the second part, that starts at the line 13 and finishes at the line 20, there is the indirectly description of the personality of Friday. Finally the third part, that starts at the end of line 20 and finishes at the end of the text, talks about the behavior of Robinson towards Friday.


